pynfs - Python NFSv4 tools
==========================

Overview
--------
pynfs consists of several Python tools for NFSv4:

rpc.py: An enhanced version of rpc.py distributed with Python.

rpcgen.py: A Python RPC protocol compiler. It generates Python code
from a RPC protocol specification. It constructs classes from all
structs and union definitions.

nfs4lib.py: A NFSv4 library for Python. It imports the files generated
by rpcgen.py.

nfs4client.py: A NFSv4 commandline client.

nfs4st.py: A server test application.

epinfo2sxw.py: Extracts test case documentation from nfs4st.py and
creates a StarOffice 6 document from it. 

test_tree_net.py: Creates a directory tree in preparation for running
nfs4st.py. 

The dependencies between the components is illustrated in
doc/pynfsmap.epsi. 

pynfs was developed during my Master's Thesis project "Design and
Implementation of a NFSv4 Server Test Suite". You can find background
information, problem description etc in the thesis report, which is
available on the pynfs web page. Please note that the report describes
pynfs version 0.1, which is old.

Appendix A in the report describes pynfs. The information in the doc/
directory is (currently) basically the same as the information in
Appendix B. The information in the doc/ directory will be updated, the
report will not be. 

See the pynfs web page (http://www.cendio.se/~peter/pynfs/) for
more information about pynfs. 


Requirements
------------
* Python 2.1 or newer. Make sure your Python interpreter can be found
as "python2" and is listed in your PATH.

* PLY 1.1 or newer. PLY is included with the pynfs distribution.


Installation
------------
First of all, compile the NFSv4 RPC definition file "nfs4.x" by
running:

$ ./rpcgen.py nfs4.x

This will generate nfs4constants.py, nfs4packer.py and nfs4types.py.

In theory, you should be able to install (copying files to some
destination directory) by running:

# ./setup.py install

But in most cases, there is no need for this. Simple place the pynfs
distribution in some directory and use it from there.


Using
-----
Refer to the documentation in the doc/ directory, for example
doc/nfs4st.txt and doc/nfs4client.txt.
